---
layout: blog-post
permalink: /blog/ruby-web
categories: [blog]
title: Creating a Quora-like website with Rails
description: This tutorial aims to teach you how to create a question-and-answer website just like Quora
tags: [coding, ruby, rails, tutorial]
comments: true
---
🚧 This page is a work in progress 🚧


## Introduction

If you know some <a href="https://inventwithpython.com/invent4thed/">basic programming</a> (variables, if-else statements, loops), but are not sure how to start creating a web application then you're in luck. 

This tutorial aims to teach you how to use Ruby on Rails to create a full-blown web application. We will create a <a href="https://www.quora.com/">Quora</a>-like website where users can post questions and have other people answer their questions. Users can also comment and rate others' answers. If this sounds exciting to you, then read on!

## Goal of Tutorial

Most tutorials teach you how to make simple blogs, but don't really teach you how to design a website with more functionalities  (user accounts, databases, and deployment) that specifically suit the web app you want to create.

By the end of this lesson, you the basics of how to design a database to create any simple application you can think of be it Food Delivery App, or Dating App or Property Renting App.

## Following the Tutorial

This tutorial aims to help you set things up and solve common questions errors.

## Contents

<a href="/blog/ruby-web-1">**Part 1 - Deploying your app**</a>
1. Ruby on Rails
1. Installing Your Tools
1. Deploying your website on Heroku

<a href="/blog/ruby-web-2">**Part 2 - Designing your app**</a>
1. Designing with your app's schema
1. Designing your app UI

**Part 3 - Building basic features**
1. Home page
1. User authentication with bcrypt
1. Creating Questions

**Part 4 - Building more features**
1. Questions Feed
1. Question Page
1. Creating Answers

**Part 5 - Building fancier features**
1. Comments and ratings
1. Editing and deleting things
1. User profile page
